hello and welcome to the chest create
calm YouTube video channel in today's
video I'm pleased to begin a new series
of videos on the French defense then a
French defense is played by black
against efore openings and it begins
efore v6 and in this series of lessons
what I intend to do is help players
build a repertoire kind of a my first
repertoire if you like against efore by
suggesting some lines against the most
common white responses to the French
defense and just to explain this briefly
in this video I'm going to be giving
some lines on the advanced French on the
rubenstein French and also on the
exchanged French in this introduction
video I'm just going to briefly outline
some of the themes of those just so
you're familiar with the lesson plan as
it's going to unfold
so the first one of these will be the
advanced French which continues with two
d4 black plays d5 and here white decides
to grab space by playing 'if I've
and initially this looks a little bit
awkward for black it takes away the f6
square for example but as you'll see in
future videos
that's not something to be overly
concerned about and the French advance
is an awful lot of fun to play the most
thematic way of continuing is with c5
and black will usually follow this up
with moves such as knight c6 Queen b6
and really starting to place an awful
lot of pressure on d4 and of course
we'll go into each of these variations
in an awful lot more detail as we
continue through the course so let's
just go back to the beginning efore c6
d4 d5 so what are the other main
variations that white has at their
disposal at this point well there is the
exchange French that's very excuse me
there's the exchange French and here I'm
going to be going through two dissimilar
lines one line is the what I'll call the
mainline response which is going into a
symmetrical variation just the classic
exchange French and the alternative is
bringing in some ideas from the
Scandinavian Center counter opening and
instead of recapturing with the pawn
playing three Queen takes d5 so let's
just rewind once again and explain the
last major set of variations that I'll
be going through in future videos once
again this is a 4 B 6 d 4
d five and here this is the Rubenstein
French and it's a way of handling either
Knight c3 or Knight d2 lines and the way
that we're going to handle that in terms
of being a beginner is we're going to
relieve the tension immediately and
irrespective of whether white plays with
Knight c3 or Knight d2 we're going to
simplify and immediately takes D takes
e4 and this cuts down on an awful lot of
theory so if you're interested in the
fringe defense maybe you've heard about
it and you'd like to find out a little
bit more then please consider giving me
a like and that way I'll know that
people are interested in learning a
little bit more if you've seen my videos
on the London system then I intend to
basically follow a similar kind of
format which will be a mix of G M games
inter interspersed with my own games and
also a good helping of traps to be aware
of so if you're interested in the fringe
defense please consider subscribing and
in future videos I'll go into these
lines in a lot more detail good luck
with your chess and I hope to talk to
you soon thanks very much